.. _modules-contact:

``contact``: Accessing contacts
================================================================================

**Platforms: Mobile**

The ``forge.contact`` namespace allows access to the native contact address book on the device the app is running on.

Contacts are represented by a simple Javascript object which follows the `W3C Contacts API <http://www.w3.org/TR/contacts-api/#contact-interface>`_ as much as possible.

Config
------

The ``contact`` module must be enabled in ``config.json``

.. parsed-literal::
    {
        "modules": {
            "contact": true
        }
    }

API
---

``select``
~~~~~~~~~~
**Platforms: Mobile**

Prompts the user to select a contact and returns a contact object.

.. js:function:: contact.select(success, error)

    :param function(contact) success: callback to be invoked when no errors occur
    :param function(content) error: called with details of any error which may occur

``selectAll``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Platforms: Mobile**

Returns a list of all the available contact IDs and contact name.

Due to performance limitations on Android devices, this method is unable to
return the full list of fully populated contact names; our recommended pattern
is to use this method to get the list of all available contact IDs, then lazily
load the more detailed full contact information with the ``selectById`` method.

.. js:function:: contact.selectAll(success, error)

    :param function(contactList) success: callback to be invoked when no errors occur
    :param function(content) error: called with details of any error which may occur

``selectById``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Platforms: Mobile**

Returns more detailed information about a contact whose contact ID we already
know.

.. js:function:: contact.selectById(id, success, error)

    :param function(contact) success: callback to be invoked when no errors occur
    :param function(content) error: called with details of any error which may occur


Contact object
--------------

When using ``selectAll``, the returned contacts list would look something like::

    [
        {
            ":ref:`id <field-contact-id>`": "14894",
            ":ref:`displayName <field-contact-displayName>`": "Mr Joe Bloggs"
        },
        {
            ":ref:`id <field-contact-id>`": "481516",
            ":ref:`displayName <field-contact-displayName>`": "Mr John Locke"
        },
        ...
    ]

Below is an example of a contact object returned from ``select`` or
``selectById``, with details for some field types.

.. parsed-literal::

    {
      ":ref:`id <field-contact-id>`": "14894",
      ":ref:`displayName <field-contact-displayName>`": "Mr Joe Bloggs",
      ":ref:`name <field-contact-name>`": {
        "formatted": "Mr Joe Bloggs",
        "familyName": "Bloggs",
        "givenName": "Joe",
        "middleName": null,
        "honorificPrefix": "Mr",
        "honorificSuffic": null
      },
      ":ref:`nickname <field-contact-nickname>`": "Joe",
      ":ref:`phoneNumbers <field-contact-phoneNumbers>`": [
        {
          "value": "+447554639203",
          "type": "work",
          "pref": false
        }
      ],
      ":ref:`emails <field-contact-emails>`": [
        {
          "value": "joe-bloggs@trigger.io",
          "type": "work",
          "pref": false
        }
      ],
      ":ref:`addresses <field-contact-addresses>`": [
        {
          "country": "United Kingdom",
          "formatted": "1-11 Baches Street\\nLondon\\nLondon\\N1 6DL\\nUnited Kingdom",
          "locality": "London",
          "postalCode": "N1 6DL",
          "pref": false,
          "region": "London",
          "streetAddress": "1-11 Baches Street",
          "type": "work"
        }
      ],
      ":ref:`ims <field-contact-ims>`": [
        {
          "value": "joe-bloggs@trigger.io",
          "type": "gtalk",
          "pref": false
        }
      ],
      ":ref:`organizations <field-contact-organizations>`": [
        {
          "department": "Product development",
          "name": "Forger",
          "pref": false,
          "title": "Software engineer",
          "type": null     
        }          
      ],
      ":ref:`birthday <field-contact-birthday>`": "1983-11-23",
      ":ref:`note <field-contact-note>`": "Any text can go here",
      ":ref:`photos <field-contact-photos>`": [
        {
          "value": "data:image/jpg;base64,ABCDEF1234",
          "type": null,
          "pref": false
        }
      ],
      ":ref:`categories <field-contact-categories>`": null,
      ":ref:`urls <field-contact-urls>`": [
        {
          "value": "http://trigger.io",
          "type": "homepage",
          "pref": false
        }
      ],
    }
    
Fields
~~~~~~

This section includes more detailed information on the contents of fields with
non-obvious content.

.. _field-contact-id:

id
'''''''''''''

This is a unique identifier for the contact, and is guaranteed to be the same
if the user selects the same contact again.

.. _field-contact-displayName:

displayName
'''''''''''''

This is a formatted version of the contacts name which can be used for display.
On iOS this is generated from the various parts of the name, on Android this is
stored as a separate value.

.. _field-contact-name:

name
'''''''''''''

This is an object containing the various parts of the contacts name, including
a formatted version which is used as the previous displayName value.

.. _field-contact-nickname:

nickname
'''''''''''''

A string value containing a nickname for the contact

.. _field-contact-phoneNumbers:

phoneNumbers
'''''''''''''

An array of objects containing details of a contacts phone numbers. Each number
has a ``value``, a ``type`` (such as ``home`` or ``work``) and also a ``pref``
property, which is unsupport on Android and iOS so is always false.

.. _field-contact-emails:

emails
'''''''''''''

Similarly this property is an array of objects describing a contacts emails,
with ``value``, ``type`` and ``pref`` (which is also always false).

.. _field-contact-addresses:

addresses
'''''''''''''

An array of objects describing a contacts addresses, ``formatted`` contains a
string generated from the other properties which can be used to display the
address. Each object also contains a ``pref`` property which is always false.

.. _field-contact-ims:

ims
'''''''''''''

Contains an array of Instant Messaging details for a contact, formatted
similarly to phoneNumbers and emails.

.. _field-contact-organizations:

organizations
'''''''''''''

Contains an array of objects describing organizations the contact is part of.

Can only contain one organization on iOS.

.. _field-contact-birthday:

birthday
'''''''''''''

Contains a string with the date of birth of the contact.

.. _field-contact-note:

note
'''''''''''''

A string which can contain arbitrary information about the contact.

.. _field-contact-photos:

photos
'''''''''''''

Contains an array of thumbnail photos associated with the contact, each photo
has a value which contains a ``data:`` uri of the image. The ``type`` and
``pref`` properties are not used.

Contains at most 1 photo on iOS.

.. _field-contact-categories:

categories
'''''''''''''

Not available on iOS or Android.

.. _field-contact-urls:

urls
'''''''''''''

Contains an array of URLs related to the contact, formatted similarly to
phoneNumbers and emails.

Permissions
-----------

On Android this module will add the ``READ_CONTACTS`` permission to your app,
users will be prompted to accept this when they install your app.
